#
#  = NAME
#
#  Win32::Console - Win32 Console and Character Mode Functions
#
#
#  = DESCRIPTION
#
#  This module implements the Win32 console and character mode
#  functions.  They give you full control on the console input and output,
#  including: support of off-screen console buffers (eg. multiple screen
#  pages)
#
#    - reading and writing of characters, attributes and whole portions of
#      the screen
#
#    - complete processing of keyboard and mouse events
#
#    - some very funny additional features :)
#
#
#  Those functions should also make possible a port of the Unix's curses
#  library; if there is anyone interested (and/or willing to contribute)
#  to this project, e-mail me.  Thank you.
#
#
#  = REFERENCE
#
#
#  == Methods
#
#  - Alloc
#
#    Allocates a new console for the process.  Returns C<nil> on errors, a
#    nonzero value on success.  A process cannot be associated with more
#    than one console, so this method will fail if there is already an
#    allocated console.  Use Free to detach the process from the console,
#    and then call Alloc to create a new console.  See also: C<Free>
#
#    Example:
#
#      Win32::Console::Alloc()
#
#  - Attr [attr]
#
#    Gets or sets the current console attribute.  This attribute is used by
#    the Write method.
#
#    Example:
#
#      attr = console.Attr()
#      console.Attr(FG_YELLOW | BG_BLUE)
#
#  - Close
#
#    Closes a shortcut object.  Note that it is not "strictly" required to
#    close the objects you created, since the Win32::Shortcut objects are
#    automatically closed when the program ends (or when you elsehow
#    destroy such an object).
#
#    Example:
#
#      link.Close()
#
#  - Cls [attr]
#
#    Clear the console, with the specified I<attr> if given, or using
#    ATTR_NORMAL otherwise.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.Cls()
#      console.Cls(FG_WHITE | BG_GREEN)
#
#  - Cursor [x, y, size, visible]
#
#    Gets or sets cursor position and appearance.  Returns C<nil> on
#    errors, or a 4-element list containing: I<x>, I<y>, I<size>,
#    I<visible>.  I<x> and I<y> are the current cursor position; ...
#
#    Example:
#
#      x, y, size, visible = console.Cursor()
#
#      # Get position only
#      x, y = console.Cursor()
#
#      console.Cursor(40, 13, 50, 1)
#
#      # Set position only
#      console.Cursor(40, 13)
#
#      # Set size and visibility without affecting position
#      console.Cursor(-1, -1, 50, 1)
#
#  - Display
#
#    Displays the specified console on the screen.  Returns C<nil> on errors,
#    a nonzero value on success.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.Display()
#
#  - FillAttr [attribute, number, col, row]
#
#    Fills the specified number of consecutive attributes, beginning at
#    I<col>, I<row>, with the value specified in I<attribute>.  Returns the
#    number of attributes filled, or C<nil> on errors.  See also:
#    C<FillChar>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.FillAttr(FG_BLACK | BG_BLACK, 80*25, 0, 0)
#
#  - FillChar char, number, col, row
#
#    Fills the specified number of consecutive characters, beginning at
#    I<col>, I<row>, with the character specified in I<char>.  Returns the
#    number of characters filled, or C<nil> on errors.  See also:
#    C<FillAttr>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.FillChar("X", 80*25, 0, 0)
#
#  - Flush
#
#    Flushes the console input buffer.  All the events in the buffer are
#    discarded.  Returns C<nil> on errors, a nonzero value on success.
#
#    Example:
#
#     console.Flush()
#
#  - Free
#
#    Detaches the process from the console.  Returns C<nil> on errors, a
#    nonzero value on success.  See also: C<Alloc>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      Win32::Console::Free()
#
#  - GenerateCtrlEvent [type, processgroup]
#
#    Sends a break signal of the specified I<type> to the specified
#    I<processgroup>.  I<type> can be one of the following constants:
#
#      CTRL_BREAK_EVENT
#      CTRL_C_EVENT
#
#    they signal, respectively, the pressing of Control + Break and of
#    Control + C; if not specified, it defaults to CTRL_C_EVENT.
#    I<processgroup> is the pid of a process sharing the same console.  If
#    omitted, it defaults to 0 (the current process), which is also the
#    only meaningful value that you can pass to this function.  Returns
#    C<nil> on errors, a nonzero value on success.
#
#    Example:
#
#      # break this script now
#      Win32::Console::GenerateCtrlEvent()
#
#  - GetEvents
#
#    Returns the number of unread input events in the console's input
#    buffer, or C<nil> on errors.  See also: C<Input>, C<InputChar>,
#    C<PeekInput>, C<WriteInput>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      events = console.GetEvents()
#
#  - Info
#
#    Returns an array of informations about the console (or C<nil> on
#    errors), which contains:
#
#       * columns (X size) of the console buffer.
#
#       * rows (Y size) of the console buffer.
#
#       * current column (X position) of the cursor.
#
#       * current row (Y position) of the cursor.
#
#       * current attribute used for C<Write>.
#
#       * left column (X of the starting point) of the current console window.
#
#       * top row (Y of the starting point) of the current console window.
#
#       * right column (X of the final point) of the current console window.
#
#       * bottom row (Y of the final point) of the current console window.
#
#       * maximum number of columns for the console window, given the current
#         buffer size, font and the screen size.
#
#       * maximum number of rows for the console window, given the current
#         buffer size, font and the screen size.
#
#
#    See also: <b>Attr</b>, <b>Cursor</b>, <b>Size</b>, <b>Window</b>, <b>MaxWindow</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      info = console.Info()
#      puts "Cursor at #{info[3]}, #{info[4]}."
#
#  - Input
#
#    Reads an event from the input buffer.  Returns an array of values, which
#    depending on the event's nature are:
#
#    - keyboard event
#
#       The array will contain:
#
#       * event type: 1 for keyboard
#
#       * key down: TRUE if the key is being pressed, FALSE if the key is being released
#
#       * repeat count: the number of times the key is being held down
#
#       * virtual keycode: the virtual key code of the key
#
#       * virtual scancode: the virtual scan code of the key
#
#       * char: the ASCII code of the character (if the key is a character key, 0 otherwise)
#
#       * control key state: the state of the control keys (SHIFTs, CTRLs, ALTs, etc.)
#
#
#    - mouse event
#
#      The array will contain:
#
#       * event type: 2 for mouse
#
#       * mouse pos. X: X coordinate (column) of the mouse location
#
#       * mouse pos. Y: Y coordinate (row) of the mouse location
#
#       * button state: the mouse button(s) which are pressed
#
#       * control key state: the state of the control keys (SHIFTs, CTRLs, ALTs, etc.)
#
#       * event flags: the type of the mouse event
#
#
#    This method will return <b>nil</b> on errors.  Note that the events
#    returned are depending on the input <b>Mode</b> of the console; for example,
#    mouse events are not intercepted unless ENABLE_MOUSE_INPUT is
#    specified.  See also: <b>GetEvents</b>, <b>InputChar</b>, <b>Mode</b>,
#    <b>PeekInput</b>, <b>WriteInput</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      event = console.Input()
#
#  - InputChar number
#
#    Reads and returns I<number> characters from the console input buffer,
#    or <b>nil</b> on errors.  See also: <b>Input</b>, <b>Mode</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      key = console.InputChar(1)
#
#  - InputCP [codepage]
#
#    Gets or sets the input code page used by the console.  Note that this
#    doesn't apply to a console object, but to the standard input
#    console.  This attribute is used by the Write method.  See also:
#    <b>OutputCP</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      codepage = Win32::Console::InputCP()
#      Win32::Console::InputCP(437)
#
#  - MaxWindow
#
#    Returns the size of the largest possible console window, based on the
#    current font and the size of the display.  The result is <b>nil</b> on
#    errors, otherwise a 2-element list containing col, row.
#
#    Example:
#
#      maxCol, maxRow = console.MaxWindow()
#
#  - Mode [flags]
#
#    Gets or sets the input or output mode of a console.  I<flags> can be a
#    combination of the following constants:
#
#      ENABLE_LINE_INPUT
#      ENABLE_ECHO_INPUT
#      ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT
#      ENABLE_WINDOW_INPUT
#      ENABLE_MOUSE_INPUT
#      ENABLE_PROCESSED_OUTPUT
#      ENABLE_WRAP_AT_EOL_OUTPUT
#
#    For more informations on the meaning of those flags, please refer to
#    the L<"Microsoft's Documentation">.
#
#    Example:
#
#      mode = console.Mode()
#      console.Mode(ENABLE_MOUSE_INPUT | ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT)
#
#  - MouseButtons
#
#    Returns the number of the buttons on your mouse, or <b>nil</b> on errors.
#
#    Example:
#
#      puts "Your mouse has #{Win32::Console::MouseButtons()} buttons."
#
#  - Win32::Console.new standard_handle
#
#  - Win32::Console.new [accessmode, sharemode]
#
#    Creates a new console object.  The first form creates a handle to a
#    standard channel, I<standard_handle> can be one of the following:
#
#      STD_OUTPUT_HANDLE
#      STD_ERROR_HANDLE
#      STD_INPUT_HANDLE
#
#    The second form, instead, creates a console screen buffer in memory,
#    which you can access for reading and writing as a normal console, and
#    then redirect on the standard output (the screen) with <b>Display</b>.  In
#    this case, you can specify one or both of the following values for
#    I<accessmode>:
#
#      GENERIC_READ
#      GENERIC_WRITE
#
#    which are the permissions you will have on the created buffer, and one
#    or both of the following values for I<sharemode>:
#
#      FILE_SHARE_READ
#      FILE_SHARE_WRITE
#
#    which affect the way the console can be shared.  If you don't specify
#    any of those parameters, all 4 flags will be used.
#
#    Example:
#
#      stdout = Win32::Console.new(STD_OUTPUT_HANDLE)
#      stderr = Win32::Console.new(STD_ERROR_HANDLE)
#      stdin  = Win32::Console.new(STD_INPUT_HANDLE)
#
#      buffer = Win32::Console.new()
#      buffer = Win32::Console.new(GENERIC_READ | GENERIC_WRITE)
#
#  - OutputCP [codepage]
#
#    Gets or sets the output code page used by the console.  Note that this
#    doesn't apply to a console object, but to the standard output console.
#    See also: <b>InputCP</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      codepage = Win32::Console::OutputCP()
#      Win32::Console::OutputCP(437)
#
#  - PeekInput
#
#    Does exactly the same as <b>Input</b>, except that the event read is not
#    removed from the input buffer.  See also: <b>GetEvents</b>, <b>Input</b>,
#    <b>InputChar</b>, <b>Mode</b>, <b>WriteInput</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      event = console.PeekInput()
#
#  - ReadAttr [number, col, row]
#
#    Reads the specified I<number> of consecutive attributes, beginning at
#    I<col>, I<row>, from the console.  Returns the attributes read (a
#    variable containing one character for each attribute), or <b>nil</b> on
#    errors.  You can then pass the returned variable to <b>WriteAttr</b> to
#    restore the saved attributes on screen.  See also: <b>ReadChar</b>,
#    <b>ReadRect</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      colors = console.ReadAttr(80*25, 0, 0)
#
#  - ReadChar [number, col, row]
#
#    Reads the specified I<number> of consecutive characters, beginning at
#    I<col>, I<row>, from the console.  Returns a string containing the
#    characters read, or <b>nil</b> on errors.  You can then pass the
#    returned variable to <b>WriteChar</b> to restore the saved characters on
#    screen.  See also: <b>ReadAttr</b>, <b>ReadRect</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      chars = console.ReadChar(80*25, 0, 0)
#
#  - ReadRect left, top, right, bottom
#
#    Reads the content (characters and attributes) of the rectangle
#    specified by I<left>, I<top>, I<right>, I<bottom> from the console.
#    Returns a string containing the rectangle read, or <b>nil</b> on errors.
#    You can then pass the returned variable to <b>WriteRect</b> to restore the
#    saved rectangle on screen (or on another console).  See also:
#    <b>ReadAttr</b>, <b>ReadChar</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#       rect = console.ReadRect(0, 0, 80, 25)
#
#  - Scroll left, top, right, bottom, col, row, char, attr,
#               [cleft, ctop, cright, cbottom]
#
#    Moves a block of data in a console buffer the block is identified by
#    I<left>, I<top>, I<right>, I<bottom>, while I<row>, I<col> identify
#    the new location of the block.  The cells left empty as a result of
#    the move are filled with the character I<char> and attribute I<attr>.
#    Optionally you can specify a clipping region with I<cleft>, I<ctop>,
#    I<cright>, I<cbottom>, so that the content of the console outside this
#    rectangle are unchanged.  Returns <b>nil</b> on errors, a nonzero value
#    on success.
#
#    Example:
#
#      # scrolls the screen 10 lines down, filling with black spaces
#      console.Scroll(0, 0, 80, 25, 0, 10, " ", FG_BLACK | BG_BLACK)
#
#  - Select standard_handle
#
#    Redirects a standard handle to the specified console.
#    I<standard_handle> can have one of the following values:
#
#      STD_INPUT_HANDLE
#      STD_OUTPUT_HANDLE
#      STD_ERROR_HANDLE
#
#    Returns <b>nil</b> on errors, a nonzero value on success.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.Select(STD_OUTPUT_HANDLE)
#
#  - Size [col, row]
#
#    Gets or sets the console buffer size.
#
#    Example:
#
#      x, y = console.Size()
#      console.Size(80, 25)
#
#  - Title [title]
#
#    Gets or sets the title bar the string of the current console window.
#
#    Example:
#
#      title = console.Title()
#      console.Title("This is a title")
#
#  - Window [flag, left, top, right, bottom]
#
#    Gets or sets the current console window size.  If called without
#    arguments, returns a 4-element list containing the current window
#    coordinates in the form of I<left>, I<top>, I<right>, I<bottom>.  To
#    set the window size, you have to specify an additional I<flag>
#    parameter: if it is 0 (zero), coordinates are considered relative to
#    the current coordinates; if it is non-zero, coordinates are absolute.
#
#    Example:
#
#      left, top, right, bottom = console.Window()
#      console.Window(1, 0, 0, 80, 50)
#
#  - Write string
#
#    Writes I<string> on the console, using the current attribute, that you
#    can set with <b>Attr</b>, and advancing the cursor as needed.  This isn't
#    so different from Perl's "print" statement.  Returns the number of
#    characters written or <b>nil</b> on errors.  See also: <b>WriteAttr</b>,
#    <b>WriteChar</b>, <b>WriteRect</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.Write("Hello, world!")
#
#  - WriteAttr attrs, col, row
#
#    Writes the attributes in the string I<attrs>, beginning at I<col>,
#    I<row>, without affecting the characters that are on screen.  The
#    string attrs can be the result of a <b>ReadAttr</b> function, or you can
#    build your own attribute string; in this case, keep in mind that every
#    attribute is treated as a character, not a number (see example).
#    Returns the number of attributes written or <b>nil</b> on errors.  See
#    also: <b>Write</b>, <b>WriteChar</b>, <b>WriteRect</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.WriteAttr($attrs, 0, 0)
#
#      # note the use of chr()...
#      attrs = (FG_BLACK | BG_WHITE).chr() * 80
#      console.WriteAttr(attrs, 0, 0)
#
#  - WriteChar chars, col, row
#
#    Writes the characters in the string <i>attr</i>, beginning at <i>col</i>, <i>row</i>,
#    without affecting the attributes that are on screen.  The string <i>chars</i>
#    can be the result of a <b>ReadChar</b> function, or a normal string.  Returns
#    the number of characters written or <b>nil</b> on errors.  See also:
#    <b>Write</b>, <b>WriteAttr</b>, <b>WriteRect</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.WriteChar("Hello, worlds!", 0, 0)
#
#  - WriteInput (event)
#
#    Pushes data in the console input buffer.  I<(event)> is a list of values,
#    for more information see <b>Input</b>.  The string chars can be the result of
#    a <b>ReadChar</b> function, or a normal string.  Returns the number of
#    characters written or <b>nil</b> on errors.  See also: <b>Write</b>,
#    <b>WriteAttr</b>, <b>WriteRect</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.WriteInput(event)
#
#  - WriteRect rect, left, top, right, bottom
#
#    Writes a rectangle of characters and attributes (contained in <i>rect</i>)
#    on the console at the coordinates specified by <i>left</i>, <i>top</i>,
#    <i>right</i>, <i>bottom</i>.  <i>rect</i> can be the result of a <b>ReadRect</b>
#    function.  Returns <b>nil</b> on errors, otherwise a 4-element list
#    containing the coordinates of the affected rectangle, in the format
#    <i>left</i>, <i>top</i>, <i>right</i>, <i>bottom</i>.  See also: <b>Write</b>,
#    <b>WriteAttr</b>, <b>WriteChar</b>.
#
#    Example:
#
#      console.WriteRect(rect, 0, 0, 80, 25)
#
#
#  == Constants
#
#  The following constants are defined in the namespace of 
#  Win32::Console::Constants and are brought into the current
#  namespace when the module is required:
#
#      BACKGROUND_BLUE
#      BACKGROUND_GREEN
#      BACKGROUND_INTENSITY
#      BACKGROUND_RED
#      CAPSLOCK_ON
#      CONSOLE_TEXTMODE_BUFFER
#      ENABLE_ECHO_INPUT
#      ENABLE_LINE_INPUT
#      ENABLE_MOUSE_INPUT
#      ENABLE_PROCESSED_INPUT
#      ENABLE_PROCESSED_OUTPUT
#      ENABLE_WINDOW_INPUT
#      ENABLE_WRAP_AT_EOL_OUTPUT
#      ENHANCED_KEY
#      FILE_SHARE_READ
#      FILE_SHARE_WRITE
#      FOREGROUND_BLUE
#      FOREGROUND_GREEN
#      FOREGROUND_INTENSITY
#      FOREGROUND_RED
#      LEFT_ALT_PRESSED
#      LEFT_CTRL_PRESSED
#      NUMLOCK_ON
#      GENERIC_READ
#      GENERIC_WRITE
#      RIGHT_ALT_PRESSED
#      RIGHT_CTRL_PRESSED
#      SCROLLLOCK_ON
#      SHIFT_PRESSED
#      STD_INPUT_HANDLE
#      STD_OUTPUT_HANDLE
#      STD_ERROR_HANDLE
#
#  Additionally, these other constants are also added to your current
#  namespace when requiring the module:
#
#      FG_BLACK
#      FG_BLUE
#      FG_LIGHTBLUE
#      FG_RED
#      FG_LIGHTRED
#      FG_GREEN
#      FG_LIGHTGREEN
#      FG_MAGENTA
#      FG_LIGHTMAGENTA
#      FG_CYAN
#      FG_LIGHTCYAN
#      FG_BROWN
#      FG_YELLOW
#      FG_GRAY
#      FG_WHITE
#
#      BG_BLACK
#      BG_BLUE
#      BG_LIGHTBLUE
#      BG_RED
#      BG_LIGHTRED
#      BG_GREEN
#      BG_LIGHTGREEN
#      BG_MAGENTA
#      BG_LIGHTMAGENTA
#      BG_CYAN
#      BG_LIGHTCYAN
#      BG_BROWN
#      BG_YELLOW
#      BG_GRAY
#      BG_WHITE
#
#      ATTR_NORMAL
#      ATTR_INVERSE
#
#  ATTR_NORMAL is set to gray foreground on black background (DOS's
#  standard colors).
#
#
#  == Microsoft's Documentation
#
#  Documentation for the Win32 Console and Character mode Functions can
#  be found on Microsoft's site at this URL:
#
#  http://www.microsoft.com/msdn/sdk/platforms/doc/sdk/win32/sys/src/conchar.htm
#
#  A reference of the available functions is at:
#
#  http://www.microsoft.com/msdn/sdk/platforms/doc/sdk/win32/sys/src/conchar_34.htm
#
#
#  = VERSION HISTORY
#
#   * 0.031 (24 Sep 1999)
#
#     * Fixed typo in GenerateCtrlEvent().
#
#     * Converted and added pod documentation (from Jan Dubois <jand@activestate.com>).
#
#   * 0.03 (07 Apr 1997)
#
#     * Added "GenerateCtrlEvent" method.
#
#     * The PLL file now comes in 2 versions, one for Perl version 5.001
#       (build 110) and one for Perl version 5.003 (build 300 and higher,
#       EXCEPT 304).
#
#     * added an installation program that will automatically copy the right
#       version in the right place.
#
#  * 0.01 (09 Feb 1997)
#
#      * First public release.
#
#  = AUTHORS
#
#  Aldo Calpini <a.calpini@romagiubileo.it> Perl module
#
#  Gonzalo Garramuño <GGarramuno@aol.com>   Ruby Port
#
#  = CREDITS
#
#  Thanks to: Jesse Dougherty, Dave Roth, ActiveWare, and the
#  Perl-Win32-Users community.
#
#
#  = DISCLAIMER
#
#  This program is FREE; you can redistribute, modify, disassemble, or
#  even reverse engineer this software at your will.  Keep in mind,
#  however, that NOTHING IS GUARANTEED to work and everything you do is
#  AT YOUR OWN RISK - I will not take responsibility for any damage, loss
#  of money and/or health that may arise from the use of this program!
#
#  This is distributed under the terms of Larry Wall's Artistic License.
#
